Introduction
---

FakeNES is a portable, Open Source NES emulator.  It uses the Allegro
library for input, graphics, and sound across various platforms.

It is distributed under the zlib/libpng license.


Performance
---

FakeNES is written in 100% C language code.  This makes it very portable,
but also very slow compared to many other NES/Famicom emulators.

Do not expect FakeNES to run fast or even be playable on a 486 or Pentium.
I recommend at least a 500 MHz processor for full speed.

A 2 GHz+ processor may be required if you want special features like HQ2X.

More recent versions focus entirely on accuracy and recreating the
original experience, and thus may run very slowly on the default settings.


API support
---

OpenGL is supported, through AllegroGL.  For best results, disable any
"enhancements" that your video drivers may force upon the program.

OpenAL is also supported.


Configuration
---

At this time, command-line options are not supported.

However, you may supply the name of a file that you would like to load on
the command-line (instead of loading it from the GUI).

Under Windows, you can also drag and drop any supported file formats (such
as .NES files) directly onto the program icon in Windows Explorer.


Input
---

FakeNES supports two keyboard layouts, four joysticks, and a mouse.


Expansion hardware
---

A great deal of in-cart expansion hardware ("mappers") are emulated, but
extensive game compatibility is not something I strive for.

The NES four player adapter ("Four Score") is supported.

The NES light gun ("Zapper") is supported, and requires a mouse.


Unicode
---

FakeNES is mostly, if not fully, Unicode(UTF-8) compliant, provided you are
able to obtain a suitable font for your locale.


Getting support
---

The Website
http://fakenes.sourceforge.net/

The SourceForge project page
http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/fakenes/


Other documentation
---

If you need any help regarding building FakeNES from a Source Code package
or CVS, please read the 'INSTALL' file in the 'docs' directory.


Anything else
---

If you would like something else documented, please let me know.  You can
contact me by E-mail at randilyn@users.sourceforge.net.


In closing...
---

I would like to thank my fellow ZSNES developers, without them I would have
never became interested in the world of emulation.

I would also like to thank the current maintainer of SNEeSe (and forever
good friend), TRAC, as well as the rest of the FakeWare team, without them
FakeNES would never have even been possible.

A very special thanks goes out to sarencele for helping to fix the "Archbug"
that effectively stalled the project at version 0.4.0 for a year.

And finally I would like to thank everybody else who is (as Matt Conte so
elegantly put it) still hacking around with the old piece of crap.


- randilyn
